Material chapter (#121)
festim-dev/FESTIM-workshop: book/content/material/material_htm.md

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.17.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: festim-workshop
  language: python
  name: python3
---

> # Using HTM with FESTIM #

Author: ```suggestion
# Using the HTM property database
```

+++

> Another helpful feature we show is how to integrate FESTIM with HTM. H-transport-materials (HTM) is a python library for accessing hydrogen transport properties such as diffusivities, solubilities, recombination coefficients, etc. It is an __[open-source project](https://github.com/RemDelaporteMathurin/h-transport-materials)__. and contributions to the database are more than welcome! See the online dashboard __[here](https://htm-dashboard-uan5l4xr6a-od.a.run.app/)__!

Author: ```suggestion
FESTIM can be coupled to the hydrogen transport properties database [HTM](https://github.com/RemDelaporteMathurin/h-transport-materials).
H-transport-materials (HTM) is a python library for accessing hydrogen transport properties such as diffusivities, solubilities, recombination coefficients, etc. HTM is open-source and contributions to the database are more than welcome! See the online dashboard __[here](https://htm-dashboard-uan5l4xr6a-od.a.run.app/)__!
```

Objectives:
* Learn how to install and use the HTM library
* Learn how to use and integrate HTM in FESTIM

+++

## Using the HTM Library ##

First, install HTM by running: 

` pip install h-transport-materials `

> Now that HTM is installed, let's look at at the HTM api.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that HTM is installed, let's look at at the HTM API.
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
diffusivities = htm.diffusivities.filter(material="tungsten").filter(isotope="h").filter(author="frauenfelder")
D = diffusivities[0]

print(type(diffusivities))
print(type(D))
```

A `htm.ArrheniusProperty` object has several useful attributes like `.pre_exp` which holds the pre-exponential factor, `.act_energy` for the activation energy but also `.author` and `.year`:

```{code-cell} ipython3
print(D)
```

We can also look at the solubility:

```{code-cell} ipython3
S = htm.solubilities.filter(material="tungsten").filter(author="frauenfelder")[0]
print(S)
```

These properties can then be used inside a `FESTIM.Material` object. This is extremely useful to avoid silly copy-pasting mistakes and typos in simulations.

```{code-cell} ipython3
import festim as F

tungsten = F.Material(
    D_0=D.pre_exp.magnitude, E_D=D.act_energy.magnitude,
    K_S_0=S.pre_exp.magnitude, E_K_S=S.act_energy.magnitude
    )

> print(tungsten)

Author: Hm I don't know why we had that in the original tutorial but this would be more informative:

```suggestion
print(tungsten.D_0, tungsten.E_D)
```

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.17.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: festim-workshop
  language: python
  name: python3
---

> # Using HTM with FESTIM #

Author: ```suggestion
# Using the HTM database
```
